What is the Simple Science Writer?

The Simple Science Writer is a science communication tool modeled after the XKCD webtool "Simple Writer", which is based on their webcomic "Up Goer Five" and their book "Thing Explainer". The instructions for the Simple Writer are simple: write in the box, and if you use a word that is not in the top 1000(-ish) words commonly used in the English language, that word will turn red. This is to help simplify scientific messages for non-scientific audiences. The Simple Science Writer was created in response to feedback from graduate students and postdoctoral researchers who participated in the Lab Tales Science Storytelling Workshop who liked the Simple Writer activity, but wanted an exercise that would help them communicate at a slightly higher level (e.g. to peers in their field but not necessarily their sub-field).

The Simple Science Writer checks a list of the 3000 most commonly-used words in the English language, plus a list of approximately 300 words used commonly in physics, chemistry, biology, and computer science writings as suggested by ChatGPT. If you want to use just the 3000 most commonly-used words, simply don't check the box next to ''Check for scientific words?'' We can't capture all of the words that might be common to a scientific field, so the Simple Science Writer also allows you to add your own words to the checker.

Good science requires good communicaiton, now more than ever. We hope that the Simple Science Writer will help you to better communicate your incredible research to friends, family, your scientific peers, and the general public!
